Chapter 1, Pages 1-7
Page 6, sustained : lengthen or extend in duration or space
Connotation: " elijah and the rabbi were entertained with plenty of the cow's milk sustained by home-made bread"
Page 6, Significant Statement:  He told how King Pellinore had got so courageous since his marriage
Rationale: I thought the use of the word courageous showed the heroism in the actions. It definitely stands out as a powerful statement.
Main Idea:  Kay began walking off in the wrong direction because he knew that he had flown the bird when he was not properly in yarak and the Wart had to shout after him the right way .
Reflection: I liked this chapter because of  Kay began walking off in the wrong direction because he knew that he had flown the bird when he was not properly in yarak and the Wart had to shout after him the right way . I thought it was a really complex chapter.

Chapter 2, Pages 8-14
Page 9, dominated : be larger in number, quantity, power, status or importance
Connotation: "the world was laid out before the two watchers like a toy for they were on a high keep which dominated the town"
Page 11, Significant Statement:  Hark to Beaumont the valiant Ho moy ho moy hole
Rationale: When the author uses the word valiant, it shows heroism.
Main Idea:  The boy slept well in the woodland nest where he had laid himself down in that kind of thin but refreshing sleep which people have when they lie out of doors . At first he only dipped below the surface of sleep and skimmed along like a salmon in shallow water .
Reflection: I’m looking forward to seeing how this story turns out. It’s really engaging so far. I thought  The boy slept well in the woodland nest where he had laid himself down in that kind of thin but refreshing sleep which people have when they lie out of doors  was a really interesting part.

Chapter 3, Pages 15-21
Page 18, perspiring : excrete perspiration through the pores in the skin
Connotation: " it came up easily because it had been loaded systematically—not like modern hay—and sir ector scrambled about on top getting in the way of his assistants who did the real work and stamping and perspiring and scratching abo"
Page 15, Significant Statement:  They are braver than the silly ro
Rationale: This quote from the book is significant. They use the word brave. It shows the heroism in the statement.
Main Idea:  The Wart started talking before he was half-way over the drawbridge . Look who I have brought he said. Look I have been on a Quest I was shot at with three arrows. They had black and yellow stripes. The owl is called Archimedes. This is my tutor Merlyn. I saw King Pellinore. He was after the Questing Beast. Merlyn made the plates wash up .
Reflection: I look forward to learning more about  The Wart started talking before he was half-way over the drawbridge . This chapter set up a lot of stuff and it was great.

Chapter 4, Pages 22-28
Page 25, troublesome : difficult to deal with
Connotation: " in the new law courts—for fort mayne was over—the lawyers were as busy as bees issuing writs for attainder chancery chevisance disseisin distraint distress embracery exigent fieri facias maintenance replevin right of way oyer and terminer scot and lot quorum bonorum sic et non pro et contra jus primae noctis and questio quid juris? thieves—it is true—could be hanged for stealing goods to the value of one shilling—for the codification of justice was still weak and muddled—but that was not so bad as it sounds when you remember that for a shilling you could buy two geese or four gallons of wine or forty-eight loaves of bread—a troublesome load for a thief i"
Page 24, Significant Statement:  These men a picked striking force of gallants resumed the onsla
Rationale: I thought the use of the word gallant showed the heroism in the actions. It definitely stands out as a powerful statement.
Main Idea:  Chapter VSir Ector's home was called The Castle of the Forest Sauvage . It was more like a town or a village than any one man's home and indeed it was the village during times of danger: for this part of the story .
Reflection: I thought that  Chapter VSir Ector's home was called The Castle of the Forest Sauvage  was an interesting part and made it a memorable chapter.  It was more like a town or a village than any one man's home and indeed it was the village during times of danger: for this part of the story  was an intriguing moment.

Chapter 5, Pages 29-35
Page 34, annoyingly : in an annoying manner or to an annoying degree
Connotation: " he was neither clever nor sensitive but he was loyal—stubbornly sometimes and even annoyingly and stupidly so in"
Page 30, Significant Statement: Very good Madam said the Wart quite fearless with resentment
Rationale: When the author uses the word fearless, it shows heroism.
Main Idea:  There were two straw targets fifty yards apart and when they had shot their arrows at one they had to go to it collect them and shoot back at the other after facing about . It was still the loveliest summer weather and there had been chicken for dinner so Merlyn had gone off to the edge of their shooting-ground and sat down under a tree .
Reflection: I liked this chapter because of  There were two straw targets fifty yards apart and when they had shot their arrows at one they had to go to it collect them and shoot back at the other after facing about . I thought it was a really complex chapter.

Chapter 6, Pages 36-42
Page 36, discovery : the act of discovering something
Connotation: "my exclaimed the wart while his eyes sparkled with excitement at the discovery"
Page 42, Significant Statement:  There were other peaks when for instance their line of flight was crossed by an Indian file of Bewick Swans who were off to Abisko making a noise as they went like little dogs barking through handkerchiefs or when they overtook a horned owl plodding manfully along—among the 
Rationale: This quote from the book is significant. They use the word manful. It shows the heroism in the statement.
Main Idea:  Merlyn grumbled about athletics saying that nowadays people seemed to think that you were an educated man if you could knock another man off a horse . The battle of Crécy had been won upon the playing fields of Camelot .
Reflection: I’m looking forward to seeing how this story turns out. It’s really engaging so far. I thought  Merlyn grumbled about athletics saying that nowadays people seemed to think that you were an educated man if you could knock another man off a horse  was a really interesting part.

Chapter 7, Pages 43-49
Page 43, considerate : showing concern for the rights and feelings of others
Connotation: " now they had wandered off—one might almost say inconsiderately—and left him wit"
Page 44, Significant Statement:  He will say 'Never has such a doughty deed been done by 
Rationale: I thought the use of the word doughty showed the heroism in the actions. It definitely stands out as a powerful statement.
Main Idea:  The Wart did not know how to bear himself indoors . He was not forced to stay indoors because of the rain by his female supervisors . The mere wetness and dreariness in the open discouraged him from going out .
Reflection: I look forward to learning more about  The Wart did not know how to bear himself indoors . This chapter set up a lot of stuff and it was great.

Chapter 8, Pages 50-56
Page 55, melancholy : a feeling of thoughtful sadness
Connotation: "at these melancholy thoughts and espec"
Page 52, Significant Statement: How must we set about the gralloch?We cut out its guts said Agravaine
Rationale: When the author uses the word guts, it shows heroism.
Main Idea:  The boys had a way of sliding down a rain-water pipe into the moat which they could swim on secret occasions when it was necessary to be out at night—to wait for a badger for instance .
Reflection: I thought that  The boys had a way of sliding down a rain-water pipe into the moat which they could swim on secret occasions when it was necessary to be out at night—to wait for a badger for instance  was an interesting part and made it a memorable chapter.  was an intriguing moment.

Chapter 9, Pages 57-63
Page 60, caressing : affectionate play (or foreplay without contact with the genital organs)
Connotation: "' but if i were to say 'what a nice day' in caressing tones you might th"
Page 60, Significant Statement: He felt that it would be safer to go home while he still knew where he was—but he had a stout heart and did not 
Rationale: This quote from the book is significant. They use the word stout. It shows the heroism in the statement.
Main Idea:  Wart knew that if he told the elder boy about his conversation with Merlyn Kay would refuse to be condescended to and would not come . It was strange but their battle had made them friends again and each could look the other in the eye with a kind of confused affection .
Reflection: I liked this chapter because of  Wart knew that if he told the elder boy about his conversation with Merlyn Kay would refuse to be condescended to and would not come . I thought it was a really complex chapter.

Chapter 10, Pages 64-70
Page 64, hypnotism : the act of inducing hypnosis
Connotation: "it's done by hypnotism said sir ector wit"
Page 70, Significant Statement:  They made for the east where the poor lights had been and now before them the bold sun began to rise
Rationale: I thought the use of the word bold showed the heroism in the actions. It definitely stands out as a powerful statement.
Main Idea:  Nobody can get into the Castle Chariot except a boy or girl . Robin smiled at the elder boy and patted him on the back while the Wart thought despairingly about his dog .
Reflection: I’m looking forward to seeing how this story turns out. It’s really engaging so far. I thought  Nobody can get into the Castle Chariot except a boy or girl  was a really interesting part.

Chapter 11, Pages 71-77
Page 71, blackberry : large sweet black or very dark purple edible aggregate fruit of any of various bushes of the genus Rubus
Connotation: " he and his horse wandered about all day bumping against branches getting tangled in blackberry bushes and rapidly"
Page 77, Significant Statement:  Look at the barns burnt and dead men's legs sticking out of ponds and horses with swelled bellies by the roadside and mills falling down and money buried and nobody daring to walk abroad wit
Rationale: When the author uses the word daring, it shows heroism.
Main Idea:  The outlaws were pleased with their success and less careful than they should have been . They decided to take a detour round the place where they had seen the monster tied up and marched away .
Reflection: I look forward to learning more about  The outlaws were pleased with their success and less careful than they should have been . This chapter set up a lot of stuff and it was great.

Chapter 12, Pages 78-84
Page 83, suspended : hang freely
Connotation: " he remained leaning forward with closed eyes with the mouse suspended from his beak as i"
Page 78, Significant Statement: So when she did make her small request after having spared him so many tears and welcomes what could he do but seek her pleasure? He had still to tell her that her unflinching hope was baseless
Rationale: This quote from the book is significant. They use the word unflinching. It shows the heroism in the statement.
Main Idea:  The unhappy invalid was confined to his chamber for three mortal days . He was alone except at bedtime when Kay came and Merlyn was reduced to shouting his eddication through the key-hole .
Reflection: I thought that  The unhappy invalid was confined to his chamber for three mortal days  was an interesting part and made it a memorable chapter.  He was alone except at bedtime when Kay came and Merlyn was reduced to shouting his eddication through the key-hole  was an intriguing moment.

Chapter 13, Pages 85-91
Page 86, triumphantly : in a triumphant manner
Connotation: "and they all sang together led by colonel cully at the top of his voice all belling triumphantly in the terrible mo"
Page 88, Significant Statement:  Nor did the free wild geese his sometime followers ever again settle on the other island—previously a haunt of theirs—from which their captain had been spirited away
Rationale: I thought the use of the word spirited showed the heroism in the actions. It definitely stands out as a powerful statement.
Main Idea:  At night they spent the time rescuing Daddy-long-legs from their candles and rushlights . In the daytime the cows were turned into the high stubble and weeds which had been left by the harvest sickles . The pigs were driven into the purlieus of the forest where boys beat the trees to supply them with acorns .
Reflection: I liked this chapter because of  At night they spent the time rescuing Daddy-long-legs from their candles and rushlights . I thought it was a really complex chapter.

Chapter 14, Pages 92-98
Page 98, attacking : launch an attack or assault on; begin hostilities or start warfare with
Connotation: " they are attacking us by defending th"
Page 92, Significant Statement:  He was small and the creature had no chance against him at this game
Rationale: When the author uses the word game, it shows heroism.
Main Idea:  In the old Merry England of Gramarye, the rosy barons ate with their fingers and had peacocks served before them with all their tail feathers streaming or boars' heads with the tusks stuck in again . The forests rang with knights walloping each other on the helm and unicorns in the wintry moonlight stamped with their silver feet .
Reflection: I’m looking forward to seeing how this story turns out. It’s really engaging so far. I thought  In the old Merry England of Gramarye, the rosy barons ate with their fingers and had peacocks served before them with all their tail feathers streaming or boars' heads with the tusks stuck in again  was a really interesting part.

Chapter 15, Pages 99-105
Page 103, lengthwise : running or extending in the direction of the length of a thing
Connotation: " he picked up his black cloak and folded it carefully lengthwise into four after wh"
Page 103, Significant Statement:  They found out afterwards that she had been in a lunatic hospital for three
Rationale: This quote from the book is significant. They use the word lunatic. It shows the heroism in the statement.
Main Idea:  Master William Twyti turned out in daylight to be a shrivelled harassed-looking man . All his life he had been forced to pursue various animals for the royal table and when he had caught them to cut them up into proper joints .
Reflection: I look forward to learning more about  Master William Twyti turned out in daylight to be a shrivelled harassed-looking man . This chapter set up a lot of stuff and it was great.

Chapter 16, Pages 106-112
Page 108, squirrels : a kind of arboreal rodent having a long bushy tail
Connotation: " the wart was familiar with the nests of spar-hark and gos the crazy conglomerations of sticks and oddments which had been taken over from squirrels or crows and he kn"
Page 106, Significant Statement:  Bors said: Shall I make an end of this war? Not so hardy I shouted on pain 
Rationale: I thought the use of the word hardy showed the heroism in the actions. It definitely stands out as a powerful statement.
Main Idea:  Sir Grummore Master Twyti King Pellinore and the Questing Beast had gone with it . The Beast had bounded off into the snow with every sign of gratitude to be followed two hours later by the excited King .
Reflection: I thought that  Sir Grummore Master Twyti King Pellinore and the Questing Beast had gone with it  was an interesting part and made it a memorable chapter.  The Beast had bounded off into the snow with every sign of gratitude to be followed two hours later by the excited King  was an intriguing moment.

Chapter 17, Pages 113-119
Page 114, scampered : to move about or proceed hurriedly
Connotation: "come on then cried the wart and they scampered off towards the me"
Page 113, Significant Statement: At the mention of an ordeal the Wart trembled within himself and privately determined that Balin should 
Rationale: When the author uses the word determined, it shows heroism.
Main Idea:  Wart was to wait until Kay was asleep and then Archimedes would come for him with Merlyn's magic . He lay under the great bearskin and stared out of the window at the stars of spring no longer frosty and metallic but as if they had been new washed and had swollen with the moisture .
Reflection: I liked this chapter because of  Wart was to wait until Kay was asleep and then Archimedes would come for him with Merlyn's magic . I thought it was a really complex chapter.

Chapter 18, Pages 120-126
Page 124, porcupine : relatively large rodents with sharp erectile bristles mingled with the fur
Connotation: " it was stuck full of arrows like a porcupine and trotted along "
Page 125, Significant Statement: He had preserved his integrity said Arthur
Rationale: This quote from the book is significant. They use the word grit. It shows the heroism in the statement.
Main Idea:  Merlyn grew to be fond of Lyo-lyok in spite of her being a girl . He was always asking her questions about the geese . She told him how every White-front was an individual . They had no Kings like Uther no laws like the bitter Norman ones .
Reflection: I’m looking forward to seeing how this story turns out. It’s really engaging so far. I thought  Merlyn grew to be fond of Lyo-lyok in spite of her being a girl  was a really interesting part.

Chapter 19, Pages 127-133
Page 131, executing : putting a condemned person to death
Connotation: " when you are a king you can't go executing people as the fanc"
Page 129, Significant Statement: Well said the Wart recklessly if I stop doing 
Rationale: I thought the use of the word reckless showed the heroism in the actions. It definitely stands out as a powerful statement.
Main Idea:  The merlins were released every winter and new ones caught again next year . Sometimes King Pellinore could be descried galloping over the purlieus after the Beast or with the Beast after him if they happened to have got muddled up .
Reflection: I look forward to learning more about  The merlins were released every winter and new ones caught again next year . This chapter set up a lot of stuff and it was great.

Chapter 20, Pages 134-140
Page 137, obediently : in an obedient manner
Connotation: " he knew that it had to be borne however and got up obediently enough after givin"
Page 136, Significant Statement:  Then all those curved or toothed beaks opened in their hoods to a brazen unison and this is
Rationale: When the author uses the word brazen, it shows heroism.
Main Idea:  The Wart withdrew himself more and more into the kitchen . He was not happy because he did not seem to want to go hawking or anything with me any more .
Reflection: I thought that  The Wart withdrew himself more and more into the kitchen  was an interesting part and made it a memorable chapter.  He was not happy because he did not seem to want to go hawking or anything with me any more  was an intriguing moment.

Chapter 21, Pages 141-147
Page 146, materials : the tangible substance that goes into the makeup of a physical object
Connotation: " i will not alter any of the parts which you gave me for other and doubtless inferior tools and i will stay a defenceless embryo all my life doing my best to make myself a few feeble implements out of the wood iron and the other materials which you have see"
Page 142, Significant Statement: So they went out across the hay-field noting how the carefully raked hay was no
Rationale: This quote from the book is significant. They use the word careful. It shows the heroism in the statement.
Main Idea:  King Pellinore arrived for the important week-end in a high state of flurry . He exclaimed do you know? Have you heard? Is it a secret what? They asked him . The boys' nurse burst into tears .
Reflection: I liked this chapter because of  King Pellinore arrived for the important week-end in a high state of flurry . I thought it was a really complex chapter.

Chapter 22, Pages 148-154
Page 154, gunpowder : a mixture of potassium nitrate, charcoal, and sulfur in a 75:15:10 ratio which is used in gunnery, time fuses, and fireworks
Connotation: " the greatest magicians like albertus magnus friar bacon and raymond lully knew several secrets which we have lost today and discovered as a side issue what still appears to be the chief commodity of civilization namely gunpowder"
Page 150, Significant Statement:  Only the noise was so regular and single in intention that it made him think of King Pellinore doing some special action with great patience and concentration—
Rationale: I thought the use of the word patience showed the heroism in the actions. It definitely stands out as a powerful statement.
Main Idea:  Kay's sumptuous bath had to be set up in the box-room between two towel-horses and an old box of selected games . The nurse spent the whole time constructing new warm pants for everybody on the principle that the climate of any place outside the Forest Sauvage must be treacherous to the extreme .
Reflection: I’m looking forward to seeing how this story turns out. It’s really engaging so far. I thought  Kay's sumptuous bath had to be set up in the box-room between two towel-horses and an old box of selected games  was a really interesting part.

Chapter 23, Pages 155-161
Page 158, unthinkable : incapable of being conceived or considered
Connotation: " it was unthinkable that he should go "
Page 157, Significant Statement:  Once they were standing within a few feet of each other back to back only to stalk off in opposite directions with infinite precaution and once King Pell
Rationale: When the author uses the word caution, it shows heroism.
Main Idea:  The barons kicked up a fuss but as the Wart was prepared to go on putting the sword into the stone and pulling it out again till Doomsday . A few of the Gaelic ones revolted who were quelled later but in the main the people of England and the partizans like Robin were glad to settle down .
Reflection: I look forward to learning more about  The barons kicked up a fuss but as the Wart was prepared to go on putting the sword into the stone and pulling it out again till Doomsday . This chapter set up a lot of stuff and it was great.

Chapter 24, Pages 162-168
Page 166, black-haired : having hair of a dark color
Connotation: "he woke with a start to find a black-haired blue-eyed beauty i"
Page 168, Significant Statement:  There is an insane ant on square five
Rationale: This quote from the book is significant. They use the word insane. It shows the heroism in the statement.
Main Idea:  The weather-cock was a carrion crow with an arrow in its beak to point to the wind . The room was full of peat-smoke not from its own fire but from the fire in the room below .
Reflection: I thought that  The weather-cock was a carrion crow with an arrow in its beak to point to the wind  was an interesting part and made it a memorable chapter.  The room was full of peat-smoke not from its own fire but from the fire in the room below  was an intriguing moment.

Chapter 25, Pages 169-175
Page 171, negotiated : discuss the terms of an arrangement
Connotation: " it had been a passage along which only one man could crawl at a time and it had been constructed with a special kink in it at which he could wait to knock a pursuer on the head as the latter negotiated the obstacle"
Page 170, Significant Statement:  There was also a large scythe blade which the old lady hoped to use on a burglar—if ever one was foolish enough to come tha
Rationale: I thought the use of the word foolish showed the heroism in the actions. It definitely stands out as a powerful statement.
Main Idea:  The young king of England was standing on the battlements of Camelot during an interval of peace between the two Gaelic Wars . A soft light flooded the land below them and the slow river wound between venerable abbey and stately castle .
Reflection: I liked this chapter because of  The young king of England was standing on the battlements of Camelot during an interval of peace between the two Gaelic Wars . I thought it was a really complex chapter.

Chapter 26, Pages 176-182
Page 178, nobleness : the quality of elevation of mind and exaltation of character or ideals or conduct
Connotation: " with a lifted head he raised their tragedy to nobleness and gravity"
Page 179, Significant Statement:  Remember that you are visiting a kind of Spartan military mess
Rationale: When the author uses the word Spartan, it shows heroism.
Main Idea:  Sir Kay had heard stories about the Queen of Orkney and he was inquisitive about her . He had become a vegetarian lately, an opponent of blood-sports on principle .
Reflection: I’m looking forward to seeing how this story turns out. It’s really engaging so far. I thought  Sir Kay had heard stories about the Queen of Orkney and he was inquisitive about her  was a really interesting part.

Chapter 27, Pages 183-189
Page 184, reflections : a calm, lengthy, intent consideration
Connotation: " now that he was caught in the machinery of justice he had time to reflect and as usual his reflections went the opposite "
Page 186, Significant Statement:  He had become a vegetarian lately—an opponent of blood-sports on principle—although he had gone through most of them during his thoughtless youth—and even now
Rationale: This quote from the book is significant. They use the word thoughtless. It shows the heroism in the statement.
Main Idea:  They sat in the shade at the edge of a cornfield watching the harvesters . They stripped the half-ripe heads of corn with their fingers and bit the grain daintily tasting the furry milkiness of the wheat and the husky less generous flesh of the oats .
Reflection: I look forward to learning more about  They sat in the shade at the edge of a cornfield watching the harvesters . This chapter set up a lot of stuff and it was great.

Chapter 28, Pages 190-196
Page 190, celebration : a joyful occasion for special festivities to mark some happy event
Connotation: " are you excited?for answer the holy man twined his arms round the king's neck and drew him into mother morlan's shebeen—not entirely to pellinore's satisfaction for he would have liked to hurry back to piggy—but it was obvious that a bachelor party would have to be held in celebration"
Page 196, Significant Statement:  The nutty curved beak looked
Rationale: I thought the use of the word nutty showed the heroism in the actions. It definitely stands out as a powerful statement.
Main Idea:  Morlan's house in the Out Isles was hardly bigger than a large dog kennel but it was comfortable and full of interesting things . There were two horseshoes nailed on the door and five statues bought from pilgrims with used-up rosaries wound round them .
Reflection: I thought that  Morlan's house in the Out Isles was hardly bigger than a large dog kennel but it was comfortable and full of interesting things  was an interesting part and made it a memorable chapter.  There were two horseshoes nailed on the door and five statues bought from pilgrims with used-up rosaries wound round them  was an intriguing moment.

Chapter 29, Pages 197-203
Page 202, soliloquy : speech you make to yourself
Connotation: "i understand continued mordred in what was almost a soliloquy that our liege lor"
Page 198, Significant Statement:  She was beautiful sanguine hot-tempered demanding impulsive acquisitive charmi
Rationale: When the author uses the word impulsive, it shows heroism.
Main Idea:  Merlyn had made suggestions about the way to win it but as these involved an ambush with secret aid from abroad they had had to be kept dark . Lot's slowly approaching army was so many more numerous than the King's forces that it had been necessary to resort to stratagems .
Reflection: I liked this chapter because of  Merlyn had made suggestions about the way to win it but as these involved an ambush with secret aid from abroad they had had to be kept dark . I thought it was a really complex chapter.

Chapter 30, Pages 204-210
Page 205, automatic : light machine gun
Connotation: " he balanced them on the end of his long nose just before the visor automatically clapped to"
Page 204, Significant Statement: What with the preliminary crash the repeated blows
Rationale: This quote from the book is significant. They use the word rash. It shows the heroism in the statement.
Main Idea:  The King had been hunting the Questing Beast a few months earlier on the south coast of Gramarye when the animal had taken to the sea . He had hailed a passing ship which looked as if it were off to the Crusades . Sir Grummore and Sir Palomides had been in the ship and they had kindly turned it round to pursue the Beast .
Reflection: I’m looking forward to seeing how this story turns out. It’s really engaging so far. I thought  The King had been hunting the Questing Beast a few months earlier on the south coast of Gramarye when the animal had taken to the sea  was a really interesting part.

Chapter 31, Pages 211-217
Page 217, refinement : a highly developed state of perfection; having a flawless or impeccable quality; ; ; --Joseph Conrad
Connotation: " lancelot now that you could see him clearly was an erect refinement of humanity—a fana"
Page 212, Significant Statement:  In the pasture field the cows were on the gad and could be seen galloping about with their tails in the air which made Sir Ector angry
Rationale: I thought the use of the word mad showed the heroism in the actions. It definitely stands out as a powerful statement.
Main Idea:  The plain of Bedegraine was a forest of pavilions . They looked like old-fashioned bathing tents and were every colour of the rainbow . There were heraldic devices worked or stamped on the sides of the tents .
Reflection: I look forward to learning more about  The plain of Bedegraine was a forest of pavilions . This chapter set up a lot of stuff and it was great.

Chapter 32, Pages 218-224
Page 223, cavalcade : a procession of people traveling on horseback
Connotation: "when breakfast was over and master twyti had been consulted the boxing day cavalcade moved off to the m"
Page 218, Significant Statement:  Then there was a sigh a rustle a snap of one incautious twig and the clear
Rationale: When the author uses the word incautious, it shows heroism.
Main Idea:  The Queen's suggestion about hunting unicorns had a curious result . The more lovelorn King Pellinore became the more obvious it was that something would have to be done .
Reflection: I thought that  The Queen's suggestion about hunting unicorns had a curious result  was an interesting part and made it a memorable chapter.  The more lovelorn King Pellinore became the more obvious it was that something would have to be done  was an intriguing moment.

Chapter 33, Pages 225-231
Page 226, imagining : form a mental image of something that is not present or that is not the case
Connotation: " he had lain awake all night imagining how he was going t"
Page 230, Significant Statement: I will be careful said the Wart who was beginning to feel rather scared
Rationale: This quote from the book is significant. They use the word scared. It shows the heroism in the statement.
Main Idea:  Bishops were blessing the armies on both sides hearing confessions and saying Mass the night before the battle . Arthur's men were reverent about this but King Lot's men weren't reverent . The bishops assured both sides that they were certain to win because God was with them .
Reflection: I liked this chapter because of  Bishops were blessing the armies on both sides hearing confessions and saying Mass the night before the battle . I thought it was a really complex chapter.

Chapter 34, Pages 232-238
Page 233, vambraces : cannon of plate armor protecting the forearm
Connotation: " the helm pauldrons and vambraces were polished lite"
Page 238, Significant Statement:  He is so hasty and such a keen fa
Rationale: I thought the use of the word hasty showed the heroism in the actions. It definitely stands out as a powerful statement.
Main Idea:  The Queen of Lothian had taken to her chamber cutting off communication with her guests and Pellinore broke his fast alone . Afterwards he went for a walk along the beach admiring the gulls who flew above him like white quill pens whose heads had been neatly dipped in ink .
Reflection: I’m looking forward to seeing how this story turns out. It’s really engaging so far. I thought  The Queen of Lothian had taken to her chamber cutting off communication with her guests and Pellinore broke his fast alone  was a really interesting part.

Chapter 35, Pages 239-245
Page 240, illustrated : clarify by giving an example of
Connotation: " many's the illuminated picture i've cut out of him from the illustrated missals aye and st"
Page 242, Significant Statement:  The Wart was familiar with the nests of Spar-hark and Gos the crazy conglomerations of
Rationale: When the author uses the word crazy, it shows heroism.
Main Idea:  The battle of Bedegraine was fought near Sorhaute in the forest of Sherwood during the Whitsun holiday . It was in some ways the twelfth century equivalent of what later came to be called a Total War . The Eleven Kings were ready to fight their sovereign in the Norman way .
Reflection: I look forward to learning more about  The battle of Bedegraine was fought near Sorhaute in the forest of Sherwood during the Whitsun holiday . This chapter set up a lot of stuff and it was great.

Chapter 36, Pages 246-252
Page 246, perception : the representation of what is perceived; basic component in the formation of a concept
Connotation: " they saw their new lancelot as a silence and perception"
Page 251, Significant Statement:  But the dog only followed them with its eyes keeping its chin pressed firmly to the chest of 
Rationale: This quote from the book is significant. They use the word firm. It shows the heroism in the statement.
Main Idea:  King Pellinore was sitting on the cliff top with his fiancée staring out to sea . They were unconscious of the world . Behind them the ancient castle loomed against the stars .
Reflection: I thought that  King Pellinore was sitting on the cliff top with his fiancée staring out to sea  was an interesting part and made it a memorable chapter.  They were unconscious of the world  was an intriguing moment.

Chapter 37, Pages 253-259
Page 259, plantagenets : the family name of a line of English kings that reigned from 1154 to 1485
Connotation: " you have only to turn to the literature of the period with its stories of the mythological families such as plantagenets capets and so fort"
Page 253, Significant Statement:  Funny to be comforted by a lot of birds
Rationale: I thought the use of the word comforted showed the heroism in the actions. It definitely stands out as a powerful statement.
Main Idea:  Malory clearly tells us that only a Pellinore could catch her . This is why we always find her being pursued by Sir Palomides in later parts of Morte d'Arthur .
Reflection: I liked this chapter because of  Malory clearly tells us that only a Pellinore could catch her . I thought it was a really complex chapter.

Chapter 38, Pages 260-266
Page 265, sheepskin : tanned skin of a sheep with the fleece left on; used for clothing
Connotation: " so they pulled him from it by force and then there was a necessity on them to graft a piece of skin on his bottom—but it was sheepskin and from thencefor"
Page 262, Significant Statement: He advanced with his spear held in front of him and the hounds encouraged by their master st
Rationale: When the author uses the word encouraged, it shows heroism.
Main Idea:  French boy was trying to find out what he was and he was afraid of what he would find . The boy thought that there was something wrong with him all through his life . There is no need for us to try to understand it .
Reflection: I’m looking forward to seeing how this story turns out. It’s really engaging so far. I thought  French boy was trying to find out what he was and he was afraid of what he would find  was a really interesting part.

Chapter 39, Pages 267-273
Page 268, aggravating : make worse
Connotation: " did something move under that spruce tree i wonder? oh i wish i may not meet that old wild wat and have my nose bitten off how aggravating cully looks standi"
Page 272, Significant Statement:  But a knight turned up and knocked him off his hackney—I'm afraid our family was never exactly in the heroic style—and there he
Rationale: This quote from the book is significant. They use the word heroic. It shows the heroism in the statement.
Main Idea:  Lancelot ended by being the greatest knight King Arthur had . He was a sort of Bradman top of the battling averages . Tristram and Lamorak were second and third . People can't be good at cricket unless they teach themselves to be so .
Reflection: I look forward to learning more about  Lancelot ended by being the greatest knight King Arthur had . This chapter set up a lot of stuff and it was great.

Chapter 40, Pages 274-280
Page 276, peregrine : a widely distributed falcon formerly used in falconry
Connotation: " there were two little merlins which had only just been taking up from hacking an old peregrine who was not much u"
Page 277, Significant Statement:  He told how King Pellinore had got so courageous since his marriage
Rationale: I thought the use of the word courageous showed the heroism in the actions. It definitely stands out as a powerful statement.
Main Idea:  There was a feature about the great families which centred round the doom of Arthur . All three had a resident genius of the family half-way between a tutor and a confidant . In King Ban's castle there was an uncle of Lancelot's whose name was Gwenbors .
Reflection: I thought that  There was a feature about the great families which centred round the doom of Arthur  was an interesting part and made it a memorable chapter.  All three had a resident genius of the family half-way between a tutor and a confidant  was an intriguing moment.

Chapter 41, Pages 281-287
Page 286, pinnacles : (architecture) a slender upright spire at the top of a buttress of tower
Connotation: " for there under the window in arthur's gramarye the sun's rays flamed from a hundred jewels of stained glass in monasteries and convents or danced from the pinnacles of cathedrals and "
Page 287, Significant Statement:  Hark to Beaumont the valiant Ho moy ho moy hole
Rationale: When the author uses the word valiant, it shows heroism.
Main Idea:  The hero-worshipper rode towards Camelot with a bitter heart . It was hard for him to have given his life to a king only to be forgotten . Lancelot was jealous of Guenever and was ashamed of himself for being so .
Reflection: I liked this chapter because of  The hero-worshipper rode towards Camelot with a bitter heart . I thought it was a really complex chapter.

Chapter 42, Pages 288-294
Page 289, stridulated : make a shrill creaking noise by rubbing together special bodily structures
Connotation: " wart stridulated"
Page 293, Significant Statement:  They are braver than the silly ro
Rationale: This quote from the book is significant. They use the word brave. It shows the heroism in the statement.
Main Idea:  Arthur had been warned about this by Merlyn, who was now safely locked up in his cave by Nimue . But he always hated knowing the future and had managed to dismiss it from his mind .
Reflection: I’m looking forward to seeing how this story turns out. It’s really engaging so far. I thought  Arthur had been warned about this by Merlyn, who was now safely locked up in his cave by Nimue  was a really interesting part.

Chapter 43, Pages 295-301
Page 300, architects : someone who creates plans to be used in making something (such as buildings)
Connotation: " it was used as a stew so that the inhabitants of the castle could have fish on fridays and for this reason the architects had been careful n"
Page 295, Significant Statement:  These men a picked striking force of gallants resumed the onsla
Rationale: I thought the use of the word gallant showed the heroism in the actions. It definitely stands out as a powerful statement.
Main Idea:  Lancelot was a knight with a medieval respect for honour . He considered it as the ignorant country people still consider it to be the most valuable of possessions . His Word was valuable to him not only because he was good but also bad .
Reflection: I look forward to learning more about  Lancelot was a knight with a medieval respect for honour . This chapter set up a lot of stuff and it was great.

Chapter 44, Pages 302-308
Page 302, paralysed : make powerless and unable to function
Connotation: "he immediately became paralysed with shyness and s"
Page 305, Significant Statement: Very good Madam said the Wart quite fearless with resentment
Rationale: When the author uses the word fearless, it shows heroism.
Main Idea:  This was the beginning of the famous quests . They were an attempt to escape from Guenever. They were his struggles to save his honour not to establish it .
Reflection: I thought that  This was the beginning of the famous quests  was an interesting part and made it a memorable chapter.  They were an attempt to escape from Guenever was an intriguing moment.

Chapter 45, Pages 309-315
Page 309, abstraction : a concept or idea not associated with any specific instance
Connotation: " he was not an abstraction who punished you i"
Page 313, Significant Statement:  There were other peaks when for instance their line of flight was crossed by an Indian file of Bewick Swans who were off to Abisko making a noise as they went like little dogs barking through handkerchiefs or when they overtook a horned owl plodding manfully along—among the 
Rationale: This quote from the book is significant. They use the word manful. It shows the heroism in the statement.
Main Idea:  It was the old school the Norman baronial attitude which provided the adventures at this period . Few people can hate so bitterly and so self-righteously as the members of a ruling caste which is being dispossessed . The knights of the Round Table were sent out as a measure against Fort Mayne .
Reflection: I liked this chapter because of  It was the old school the Norman baronial attitude which provided the adventures at this period . I thought it was a really complex chapter.

Chapter 46, Pages 316-322
Page 321, amusements : a feeling of delight at being entertained
Connotation: " these were the amusements of grown-up women "
Page 318, Significant Statement:  He will say 'Never has such a doughty deed been done by 
Rationale: I thought the use of the word doughty showed the heroism in the actions. It definitely stands out as a powerful statement.
Main Idea:  Guenever and Lancelot were hardly more than children when it began and the King was about eight years their senior . At twenty-two the age of thirty seems to be the verge of senility . Women love their children and their husbands at the same time .
Reflection: I’m looking forward to seeing how this story turns out. It’s really engaging so far. I thought  Guenever and Lancelot were hardly more than children when it began and the King was about eight years their senior  was a really interesting part.

Chapter 47, Pages 323-329
Page 324, flambeaux : a flaming torch (such as are used in processions at night)
Connotation: " often when the queen was entertaining distinguished company under the flambeaux of the great hall "
Page 324, Significant Statement: How must we set about the gralloch?We cut out its guts said Agravaine
Rationale: When the author uses the word guts, it shows heroism.
Main Idea:  It is honourable to have the mantling slashed but dishonourable to keep it so when there is an opportunity to replace it. Such a course of action would be boastful. How did Joyeux go? Is he sharp still? Did you like his balance?
Reflection: I look forward to learning more about  It is honourable to have the mantling slashed but dishonourable to keep it so when there is an opportunity to replace it. This chapter set up a lot of stuff and it was great.

Chapter 48, Pages 330-336
Page 332, confessor : a priest who hears confession and gives absolution
Connotation: " so i accepted that beating from galahad and the taking away of my armour and in a blessed moment i went to find a confessor so that i would no"
Page 336, Significant Statement: He felt that it would be safer to go home while he still knew where he was—but he had a stout heart and did not 
Rationale: This quote from the book is significant. They use the word stout. It shows the heroism in the statement.
Main Idea:  He put a higher value on chastity than is fashionable in our century . He believed like the man in Lord Tennyson that people could only have the strength often on account of their hearts being pure .
Reflection: I thought that  He put a higher value on chastity than is fashionable in our century  was an interesting part and made it a memorable chapter.  He believed like the man in Lord Tennyson that people could only have the strength often on account of their hearts being pure  was an intriguing moment.

Chapter 49, Pages 337-343
Page 342, disordered : disturb in mind or make uneasy or cause to be worried or alarmed
Connotation: " sir meliagrance running up and down stairs with cries of yes ma'am in 'arf a minute or marian marian where the 'ell have you put the candles? or murdoch take them sheep out of the solar this instant found time to lean his forehead against the cold stone of an embrasure to clutch his bewildered heart to curse his folly and further to disarrange his already disordered plots"
Page 343, Significant Statement:  They made for the east where the poor lights had been and now before them the bold sun began to rise
Rationale: I thought the use of the word bold showed the heroism in the actions. It definitely stands out as a powerful statement.
Main Idea:  He felt such feelings in his breast because of Guenever—the frightful pang of hopeless love . He felt that he might as well be in one place as another if he was only waiting to see whether his heart would break or not .
Reflection: I liked this chapter because of  He felt such feelings in his breast because of Guenever—the frightful pang of hopeless love . I thought it was a really complex chapter.

Chapter 50, Pages 344-350
Page 347, disentangled : release from entanglement of difficulty
Connotation: " this she gripped with the fury of hysteria but he patiently disentangled her without mindin"
Page 347, Significant Statement:  Look at the barns burnt and dead men's legs sticking out of ponds and horses with swelled bellies by the roadside and mills falling down and money buried and nobody daring to walk abroad wit
Rationale: When the author uses the word daring, it shows heroism.
Main Idea:  Guenever was doing some petit point in the gloomy room which she hated doing . She had grown to have some of the nature of an individual stamped on the simple feelings of the child-queen .
Reflection: I’m looking forward to seeing how this story turns out. It’s really engaging so far. I thought  Guenever was doing some petit point in the gloomy room which she hated doing  was a really interesting part.

Chapter 51, Pages 351-357
Page 351, daydreams : absentminded dreaming while awake
Connotation: " he supported himself meanwhile on daydreams"
Page 355, Significant Statement: So when she did make her small request after having spared him so many tears and welcomes what could he do but seek her pleasure? He had still to tell her that her unflinching hope was baseless
Rationale: This quote from the book is significant. They use the word unflinching. It shows the heroism in the statement.
Main Idea:  Arthur said: Here is a letter from your father Lance. He says he is being attacked by King Claudas. I promised to help him against Claudas if it was necessary in exchange for his help at Bedegraine. I shall have to go. I hate to ask you. But would you mind if I asked you to stay?
Reflection: I look forward to learning more about  Arthur said: Here is a letter from your father Lance. This chapter set up a lot of stuff and it was great.

Chapter 52, Pages 358-364
Page 359, straightened : straighten up or out; make straight
Connotation: " he straightened his arm more in se"
Page 358, Significant Statement:  Nor did the free wild geese his sometime followers ever again settle on the other island—previously a haunt of theirs—from which their captain had been spirited away
Rationale: I thought the use of the word spirited showed the heroism in the actions. It definitely stands out as a powerful statement.
Main Idea:  The year of their happiness ended with Arthur's return and almost immediately collapsed in ruin but not on account of the King . The evening after his home-coming while he was still giving them details of the defeat of Claudas as they happened to come into his memory there was a disturbance at the Porter's Lodge . The news was that Elaine of Corbin had given birth to a fine son whom she had christened Galahad .
Reflection: I thought that  The year of their happiness ended with Arthur's return and almost immediately collapsed in ruin but not on account of the King  was an interesting part and made it a memorable chapter.  The evening after his home-coming while he was still giving them details of the defeat of Claudas as they happened to come into his memory there was a disturbance at the Porter's Lodge  was an intriguing moment.

Chapter 53, Pages 365-371
Page 366, depending : be contingent upon (something that is elided)
Connotation: " on one side would be a commodious gibbet set up by some old-fashioned princeling to hang king arthur's knights and the common saxons who trusted them—a gibbet perhaps nearly as sumptuous as that constructed at montfaucon which could support sixty bodies depending like drab fuchsias"
Page 365, Significant Statement:  He was small and the creature had no chance against him at this game
Rationale: When the author uses the word game, it shows heroism.
Main Idea:  Elaine was coming to capture Lancelot from Guenever an expedition of which everybody except herself could feel the pathos . She had no weapons to fight with and did not know how to fight . Lancelot did not love her. And she was in the yet more hopeless position of loving him .
Reflection: I liked this chapter because of  Elaine was coming to capture Lancelot from Guenever an expedition of which everybody except herself could feel the pathos . I thought it was a really complex chapter.

Chapter 54, Pages 372-378
Page 378, prosperous : in fortunate circumstances financially; moderately rich
Connotation: "there was a village under the castle of corbin which seemed a prosperous one"
Page 374, Significant Statement:  They found out afterwards that she had been in a lunatic hospital for three
Rationale: This quote from the book is significant. They use the word lunatic. It shows the heroism in the statement.
Main Idea:  Elaine arrived at the yawning barbican and Guenever kissed her coolly . The King and I are quite excited to see whether he will be like his father .
Reflection: I’m looking forward to seeing how this story turns out. It’s really engaging so far. I thought  Elaine arrived at the yawning barbican and Guenever kissed her coolly  was a really interesting part.

Chapter 55, Pages 379-385
Page 385, suffocate : deprive of oxygen and prevent from breathing
Connotation: " it made his heart swell as if he were going to suffocate"
Page 385, Significant Statement:  Bors said: Shall I make an end of this war? Not so hardy I shouted on pain 
Rationale: I thought the use of the word hardy showed the heroism in the actions. It definitely stands out as a powerful statement.
Main Idea:  Lancelot was happier today than he had been since the story of Elaine started . He felt that if he could only persuade his Guenever to make a clean break with the King there might still be a possibility of honour .
Reflection: I look forward to learning more about  Lancelot was happier today than he had been since the story of Elaine started . This chapter set up a lot of stuff and it was great.

Chapter 56, Pages 386-392
Page 387, incessantly : with unflagging resolve
Connotation: " meg who cried incessantly was held by the ha"
Page 392, Significant Statement: At the mention of an ordeal the Wart trembled within himself and privately determined that Balin should 
Rationale: When the author uses the word determined, it shows heroism.
Main Idea:  The Wild Man vanished one morning when the hounds were at Castle Bliant . King Pelles was sitting in the solar with Sir Bliant two years later . They sipped mulled wine nibbled pastry and talked about the Wild Man .
Reflection: I thought that  The Wild Man vanished one morning when the hounds were at Castle Bliant  was an interesting part and made it a memorable chapter.  King Pelles was sitting in the solar with Sir Bliant two years later  was an intriguing moment.

Chapter 57, Pages 393-399
Page 396, destructive : causing destruction or much damage
Connotation: " vigilant powdery odorous and loose-feathered—so that dogs object to take them in their mouths—armoured against pellets by the padding of these feathers the pigeons coo to one another with true love nourish their cunningly hidden children with true solicitude and flee from the aggressor with true philosophy—a race of peace lovers continually caravaning away from the destructive indian in covered "
Page 399, Significant Statement: He had preserved his integrity said Arthur
Rationale: This quote from the book is significant. They use the word grit. It shows the heroism in the statement.
Main Idea:  King Pelles was puzzled about Lancelot affair and interested in it on account of his grandson Galahad . He wanted to find out by looking up the genealogy whether there had been a streak of lunacy in the family which could account for it .
Reflection: I liked this chapter because of  King Pelles was puzzled about Lancelot affair and interested in it on account of his grandson Galahad . I thought it was a really complex chapter.

Chapter 58, Pages 400-406
Page 403, knockouts : a very attractive or seductive looking woman
Connotation: "it took two knockouts to finish sir mado"
Page 404, Significant Statement: Well said the Wart recklessly if I stop doing 
Rationale: I thought the use of the word reckless showed the heroism in the actions. It definitely stands out as a powerful statement.
Main Idea:  Guenever in similar circumstances would have been sure to grow pale and interesting—but Elaine had only grown plump . She walked in the castle garden with her companions dressed in the white clothes of a novice .
Reflection: I’m looking forward to seeing how this story turns out. It’s really engaging so far. I thought  Guenever in similar circumstances would have been sure to grow pale and interesting—but Elaine had only grown plump  was a really interesting part.

Chapter 59, Pages 407-413
Page 408, inscription : letters inscribed (especially words engraved or carved) on something
Connotation: "has this sword with this inscription been pulled out? i"
Page 410, Significant Statement:  Then all those curved or toothed beaks opened in their hoods to a brazen unison and this is
Rationale: When the author uses the word brazen, it shows heroism.
Main Idea:  He lay in bed for a fortnight in the airy bedroom with an ache in every bone while Elaine kept herself outside the room . She visited him not more than once a day and thrust nothing on him . He was sitting up in a day-gown and his hands lay still in his lap .
Reflection: I look forward to learning more about  He lay in bed for a fortnight in the airy bedroom with an ache in every bone while Elaine kept herself outside the room . This chapter set up a lot of stuff and it was great.

Chapter 60, Pages 414-420
Page 416, contented : satisfy in a limited way
Connotation: " many were vain enough to have these armorial crests with bears and dragons or even ships or castles on them but sir lancelot always contented himself with a bar"
Page 415, Significant Statement: So they went out across the hay-field noting how the carefully raked hay was no
Rationale: This quote from the book is significant. They use the word careful. It shows the heroism in the statement.
Main Idea:  Five hundred knights came from all parts of the kingdom to compete in the tournament . But the Chevalier Mal Fet knocked down anybody who would stand up to him with a kind of absent-minded ferocity and the thing was a failure . Not a single person had been killed—he spared everybody indifferently as soon as he had knocked them down .
Reflection: I thought that  Five hundred knights came from all parts of the kingdom to compete in the tournament  was an interesting part and made it a memorable chapter.  But the Chevalier Mal Fet knocked down anybody who would stand up to him with a kind of absent-minded ferocity and the thing was a failure  was an intriguing moment.

Chapter 61, Pages 421-427
Page 422, determined : establish after a calculation, investigation, experiment, survey, or study
Connotation: "at the mention of an ordeal the wart trembled within himself and privately determined that balin should "
Page 422, Significant Statement:  Only the noise was so regular and single in intention that it made him think of King Pellinore doing some special action with great patience and concentration—
Rationale: I thought the use of the word patience showed the heroism in the actions. It definitely stands out as a powerful statement.
Main Idea:  Ector Damaris said: Why not? You don't love her. You are under no obligation to her . The Queen said Degalis is desperate. She has spent a fortune looking for you .
Reflection: I liked this chapter because of  Ector Damaris said: Why not? You don't love her. I thought it was a really complex chapter.

Chapter 62, Pages 428-434
Page 432, discourteous : showing no courtesy; rude
Connotation: " i am sorry if this is discourteous but it is all i ca"
Page 431, Significant Statement:  Once they were standing within a few feet of each other back to back only to stalk off in opposite directions with infinite precaution and once King Pell
Rationale: When the author uses the word caution, it shows heroism.
Main Idea:  Lancelot's hair which had already turned badger-grey when he first came back from madness as a fellow of twenty-six was quite white . But both men's lips were red in their silky nests of beard . A new generation had come to court .
Reflection: I’m looking forward to seeing how this story turns out. It’s really engaging so far. I thought  Lancelot's hair which had already turned badger-grey when he first came back from madness as a fellow of twenty-six was quite white  was a really interesting part.

Chapter 63, Pages 435-441
Page 437, diversions : an activity that diverts or amuses or stimulates
Connotation: " for her there were no recognized diversions except what is com"
Page 438, Significant Statement:  There is an insane ant on square five
Rationale: This quote from the book is significant. They use the word insane. It shows the heroism in the statement.
Main Idea:  Lancelot and Arthur sat in an arbour from which they could watch the young people practising their shots . Lancelot said: We don't get much of the old fighting in these decadent days .
Reflection: I look forward to learning more about  Lancelot and Arthur sat in an arbour from which they could watch the young people practising their shots . This chapter set up a lot of stuff and it was great.

Chapter 64, Pages 442-448
Page 446, hysterical : characterized by or arising from psychoneurotic hysteria; - Morris Fishbein
Connotation: " they had hysterical scenes together ab"
Page 445, Significant Statement:  There was also a large scythe blade which the old lady hoped to use on a burglar—if ever one was foolish enough to come tha
Rationale: I thought the use of the word foolish showed the heroism in the actions. It definitely stands out as a powerful statement.
Main Idea:  Agravaine and Mordred came straight to Camelot from their foray among the Old Ones . They had quarrelled as soon as Lamorak was dead . The murder of Queen Morgause had not been done on purpose . But they knew by instinct that it was from jealousy .
Reflection: I thought that  Agravaine and Mordred came straight to Camelot from their foray among the Old Ones  was an interesting part and made it a memorable chapter.  They had quarrelled as soon as Lamorak was dead  was an intriguing moment.

Chapter 65, Pages 449-455
Page 453, gratitude : a feeling of thankfulness and appreciation
Connotation: " it had bounded off into the snow with every sign of gratitude to be followed two"
Page 454, Significant Statement:  Remember that you are visiting a kind of Spartan military mess
Rationale: When the author uses the word Spartan, it shows heroism.
Main Idea:  The material facts were that the knights of the Round Table set out in a body soon after Pentecost with the immediate object of finding the Holy Grail . It was two years before Lancelot came back to court and it was a lonely time for those at home .
Reflection: I liked this chapter because of  The material facts were that the knights of the Round Table set out in a body soon after Pentecost with the immediate object of finding the Holy Grail . I thought it was a really complex chapter.

Chapter 66, Pages 456-462
Page 460, persecuted : cause to suffer
Connotation: " when men themselves became wicked they took refuge there outlaws cunning and bloody as the gore-crow and as persecuted"
Page 461, Significant Statement:  He had become a vegetarian lately—an opponent of blood-sports on principle—although he had gone through most of them during his thoughtless youth—and even now
Rationale: This quote from the book is significant. They use the word thoughtless. It shows the heroism in the statement.
Main Idea:  Lancelot had one brother called Ector and two cousins called Lionel and Bors . Lionel was in a temper rather like Gawaine but the object of his annoyance was not Galahad .
Reflection: I’m looking forward to seeing how this story turns out. It’s really engaging so far. I thought  Lancelot had one brother called Ector and two cousins called Lionel and Bors  was a really interesting part.

Chapter 67, Pages 463-469
Page 467, appreciate : recognize with gratitude; be grateful for
Connotation: " one appreciates that"
Page 463, Significant Statement:  The nutty curved beak looked
Rationale: I thought the use of the word nutty showed the heroism in the actions. It definitely stands out as a powerful statement.
Main Idea:  Sir Aglovale was a lad of less than twenty summers with a fine noble face and a sense of humour . He was still in mourning for his Father King Pellinore . He wore a black sash on his shield arm . As a matter of fact his mother had died .
Reflection: I look forward to learning more about  Sir Aglovale was a lad of less than twenty summers with a fine noble face and a sense of humour . This chapter set up a lot of stuff and it was great.

Chapter 68, Pages 470-476
Page 470, presented : give an exhibition of to an interested audience
Connotation: " the gaelic confederation are representatives of an ancient race which has been harried out of england by several races which are represented by you"
Page 473, Significant Statement:  She was beautiful sanguine hot-tempered demanding impulsive acquisitive charmi
Rationale: When the author uses the word impulsive, it shows heroism.
Main Idea:  There was no news of the great Dulac . He had become a maestro himself . He was regarded as he had once regarded Uncle Dap . The survivors trickled in .
Reflection: I thought that  There was no news of the great Dulac  was an interesting part and made it a memorable chapter.  He had become a maestro himself  was an intriguing moment.

Chapter 69, Pages 477-483
Page 478, relieving : provide physical relief, as from pain
Connotation: " if it is competent to continue its duties instruct 42436/wd to rejoin mash squad relieving 210021/wd who was "
Page 478, Significant Statement: What with the preliminary crash the repeated blows
Rationale: This quote from the book is significant. They use the word rash. It shows the heroism in the statement.
Main Idea:  Lancelot saw his old love for a girl of twenty standing proudly by her throne with the present of captives about her . The same girl was standing in other surroundings the surroundings of bad make-up and loud silks .
Reflection: I liked this chapter because of  Lancelot saw his old love for a girl of twenty standing proudly by her throne with the present of captives about her . I thought it was a really complex chapter.

Chapter 70, Pages 484-490
Page 484, instalment : a part of a broadcast serial
Connotation: "the third instalment was the bishop of "
Page 486, Significant Statement:  In the pasture field the cows were on the gad and could be seen galloping about with their tails in the air which made Sir Ector angry
Rationale: I thought the use of the word mad showed the heroism in the actions. It definitely stands out as a powerful statement.
Main Idea:  Arthur had a dream which told him to go in a ship . The ship was there when he woke up sure enough and when I went inside it there was the most lovely smell and feeling and food to eat and—well whatever you can think of .
Reflection: I’m looking forward to seeing how this story turns out. It’s really engaging so far. I thought  Arthur had a dream which told him to go in a ship  was a really interesting part.

Chapter 71, Pages 491-497
Page 491, noiseless : making no sound; - Shakespeare
Connotation: " tally-ho murmured the distant snow-drifts as the heavy branches disturbed by the vibrations slid noiseless puffs of sparkling"
Page 493, Significant Statement:  Then there was a sigh a rustle a snap of one incautious twig and the clear
Rationale: When the author uses the word incautious, it shows heroism.
Main Idea:  The Queen had climbed the six steps of the wooden ladder which led to her bath and now she was sitting on the plank inside it . The bath was like a large beer barrel and her head was wrapped in a white turban .
Reflection: I look forward to learning more about  The Queen had climbed the six steps of the wooden ladder which led to her bath and now she was sitting on the plank inside it . This chapter set up a lot of stuff and it was great.

Chapter 72, Pages 498-504
Page 504, incognito : with your identity concealed
Connotation: "it had been arranged that lancelot was to live incognito—because if it were"
Page 500, Significant Statement: I will be careful said the Wart who was beginning to feel rather scared
Rationale: This quote from the book is significant. They use the word scared. It shows the heroism in the statement.
Main Idea:  The story of Bors allowing the twelve supposed gentlewomen to be hurled from the castle turret rather than save them by committing a mortal sin had shocked her to the heart . A storm gathered in her deep breasts as the months of holiness added together .
Reflection: I thought that  The story of Bors allowing the twelve supposed gentlewomen to be hurled from the castle turret rather than save them by committing a mortal sin had shocked her to the heart  was an interesting part and made it a memorable chapter.  A storm gathered in her deep breasts as the months of holiness added together  was an intriguing moment.

Chapter 73, Pages 505-511
Page 511, literally : in a literal sense
Connotation: " with the sea literally at their backs on "
Page 509, Significant Statement:  He is so hasty and such a keen fa
Rationale: I thought the use of the word hasty showed the heroism in the actions. It definitely stands out as a powerful statement.
Main Idea:  The tone of the court had changed for the fourth time . The court had knowledge of the world now: it had the fruits of achievement civilization savoir-vivre gossip fashion malice and the broad mind of scandal .
Reflection: I liked this chapter because of  The tone of the court had changed for the fourth time . I thought it was a really complex chapter.

Chapter 74, Pages 512-518
Page 515, peculiarity : an odd or unusual characteristic
Connotation: " and you kay as a norman gentleman carry the peculiarity to its limit"
Page 515, Significant Statement:  The Wart was familiar with the nests of Spar-hark and Gos the crazy conglomerations of
Rationale: When the author uses the word crazy, it shows heroism.
Main Idea:  A meadow at Westminster had been prepared for the combat . A barricade of strong logs like a corral for horses had been erected round the wide square . For an ordinary joust there would have been a barrier: but in this case the fight was to be à outrance which meant that it might end with swords on foot .
Reflection: I’m looking forward to seeing how this story turns out. It’s really engaging so far. I thought  A meadow at Westminster had been prepared for the combat  was a really interesting part.

Chapter 75, Pages 519-525
Page 521, worshipped : love unquestioningly and uncritically or to excess; venerate as an idol
Connotation: " what would she want with a sour husk when she had a rosy boy at her feet who worshipped her yes worshipped"
Page 525, Significant Statement:  But the dog only followed them with its eyes keeping its chin pressed firmly to the chest of 
Rationale: This quote from the book is significant. They use the word firm. It shows the heroism in the statement.
Main Idea:  Merlyn before letting her lock him up in the cave had given the Matter of Britain into her hands . Merlyn had made her promise—it was all that he could do—that she would watch over Arthur herself now that she knew his own magic .
Reflection: I look forward to learning more about  Merlyn before letting her lock him up in the cave had given the Matter of Britain into her hands . This chapter set up a lot of stuff and it was great.

Chapter 76, Pages 526-532
Page 532, triangles : a three-sided polygon
Connotation: "by this and by that added the old gentleman heaving his bucket out of the well with a malevolent glance why can't they get us the electric light and company's water?he was dressed in a flowing gown with fur tippets which had the signs of the zodiac embroidered over it with various cabalistic signs such as triangles with eyes in them "
Page 530, Significant Statement:  Funny to be comforted by a lot of birds
Rationale: I thought the use of the word comforted showed the heroism in the actions. It definitely stands out as a powerful statement.
Main Idea:  If people want to read about the Corbin tournament Malory has it . Malory was a passionate follower of tournaments . He reports the celebrated tournaments in full with the score of each knight and the name of the man who bowled him over .
Reflection: I thought that  If people want to read about the Corbin tournament Malory has it  was an interesting part and made it a memorable chapter.  Malory was a passionate follower of tournaments  was an intriguing moment.

Chapter 77, Pages 533-539
Page 536, gentlemanly : befitting a man of good breeding
Connotation: "a very gentlemanly exhibition said th"
Page 537, Significant Statement: He advanced with his spear held in front of him and the hounds encouraged by their master st
Rationale: When the author uses the word encouraged, it shows heroism.
Main Idea:  When the Ill-Made Knight came back from Corbin Guenever was still in a rage . He was determined to believe that Elaine had become his mistress again . She claimed that he had only been pretending about his religious feelings .
Reflection: I liked this chapter because of  When the Ill-Made Knight came back from Corbin Guenever was still in a rage . I thought it was a really complex chapter.

Chapter 78, Pages 540-546
Page 542, elevenses : the cardinal number that is the sum of ten and one
Connotation: " his horse and squire were in the courtyard ready to take him back to castle bliant but the two men were having their elevenses before he started"
Page 540, Significant Statement:  But a knight turned up and knocked him off his hackney—I'm afraid our family was never exactly in the heroic style—and there he
Rationale: This quote from the book is significant. They use the word heroic. It shows the heroism in the statement.
Main Idea:  The new kind of life went on at Camelot in spite of the suicide . Nobody could have called it a specially happy kind—but people are tenacious of life and will go on living .
Reflection: I’m looking forward to seeing how this story turns out. It’s really engaging so far. I thought  The new kind of life went on at Camelot in spite of the suicide  was a really interesting part.

Chapter 79, Pages 547-553
Page 548, institute : an association organized to promote art or science or education
Connotation: "my idea is that if we can win this battle in front of us and get a firm hold of the country then i will institute a sort of order of"
Page 552, Significant Statement:  He told how King Pellinore had got so courageous since his marriage
Rationale: I thought the use of the word courageous showed the heroism in the actions. It definitely stands out as a powerful statement.
Main Idea:  Lancelot would be bound to come in answer to the message and it was necessary to gain time . The castle was not ready for a siege but if it could be got ready there would be a fair prospect of making terms with the besiegers considering that the Queen would be inside . So Lancelot must be stopped at all costs until the castle had been put in posture of defence .
Reflection: I look forward to learning more about  Lancelot would be bound to come in answer to the message and it was necessary to gain time . This chapter set up a lot of stuff and it was great.

Chapter 80, Pages 554-560
Page 559, broadcasts : message that is transmitted by radio or television
Connotation: " in the broadcasts were completely de"
Page 559, Significant Statement:  Hark to Beaumont the valiant Ho moy ho moy hole
Rationale: When the author uses the word valiant, it shows heroism.
Main Idea:  Nobody knows what Lancelot and Guenever said to each other . Probably Lancelot made her understand about his God at last and she made him understand about her missing children .
Reflection: I thought that  Nobody knows what Lancelot and Guenever said to each other  was an interesting part and made it a memorable chapter.  Probably Lancelot made her understand about his God at last and she made him understand about her missing children  was an intriguing moment.

Chapter 81, Pages 561-567
Page 563, priceless : having incalculable monetary, intellectual, or spiritual worth
Connotation: " the dog boy and wat clubbed together and sent him a mixture for the distemper which contained quinine and was absolutely priceless"
Page 567, Significant Statement:  They are braver than the silly ro
Rationale: This quote from the book is significant. They use the word brave. It shows the heroism in the statement.
Main Idea:  Sir Lavine was actually riding into the lists when the great man came at full gallop on a white horse which belonged to Meliagrance . He had been held captive in the dungeon until that morning—when the girl who brought him his food had finally liberated him in the absence of her master in exchange for a kiss .
Reflection: I liked this chapter because of  Sir Lavine was actually riding into the lists when the great man came at full gallop on a white horse which belonged to Meliagrance . I thought it was a really complex chapter.

Chapter 82, Pages 568-574
Page 571, unemployment : the state of being unemployed or not having a job
Connotation: " you must remember that this was in the old merry england of gramarye when the rosy barons ate with their fingers and had peacocks served before them with all their tail feathers streaming or boars' heads with the tusks stuck in again—when there was no unemployment because there were"
Page 569, Significant Statement:  These men a picked striking force of gallants resumed the onsla
Rationale: I thought the use of the word gallant showed the heroism in the actions. It definitely stands out as a powerful statement.
Main Idea:  Lancelot had given his God to Guenever and she had given him his freedom in exchange . Elaine who had never been more than an incidental part of the muddle had achieved a peace of her own . Arthur whose corner of the triangle was the least fortunate from a personal point of view was not entirely wretched. Merlyn had not intended him for private happiness .
Reflection: I’m looking forward to seeing how this story turns out. It’s really engaging so far. I thought  Lancelot had given his God to Guenever and she had given him his freedom in exchange  was a really interesting part.

Chapter 83, Pages 575-581
Page 577, wickedness : morally objectionable behavior
Connotation: " the repeating voices in his head which he could not shut off—the lack of privacy under which others ate from his stomach while others again sang in his brain—the dreary blank which replaced feeling—the dearth of all but two values—the total monotony more than the wickedness: these had begun t"
Page 579, Significant Statement: Very good Madam said the Wart quite fearless with resentment
Rationale: When the author uses the word fearless, it shows heroism.
Main Idea:  Agravaine and Mordred were standing in the cloisters of the Orkney palace at Camelot looking out at the hawks who sat beneath the sun on their blocks in the green courtyard .
Reflection: I look forward to learning more about  Agravaine and Mordred were standing in the cloisters of the Orkney palace at Camelot looking out at the hawks who sat beneath the sun on their blocks in the green courtyard . This chapter set up a lot of stuff and it was great.

Chapter 84, Pages 582-588
Page 588, subjugate : put down by force or intimidation
Connotation: " we are a mighty race and have a natural right to subjugate their puny one"
Page 584, Significant Statement:  There were other peaks when for instance their line of flight was crossed by an Indian file of Bewick Swans who were off to Abisko making a noise as they went like little dogs barking through handkerchiefs or when they overtook a horned owl plodding manfully along—among the 
Rationale: This quote from the book is significant. They use the word manful. It shows the heroism in the statement.
Main Idea:  All of the paladins except Mordred had wives of their own tucked away somewhere . Few saw the men themselves separate for long . There was something childish about them when they were together which was attractive rather than the reverse .
Reflection: I thought that  All of the paladins except Mordred had wives of their own tucked away somewhere  was an interesting part and made it a memorable chapter.  Few saw the men themselves separate for long  was an intriguing moment.

Chapter 85, Pages 589-595
Page 592, acknowledgment : the state or quality of being recognized or acknowledged
Connotation: " she made a royal gesture of acknowledgment and held her hand "
Page 591, Significant Statement:  He will say 'Never has such a doughty deed been done by 
Rationale: I thought the use of the word doughty showed the heroism in the actions. It definitely stands out as a powerful statement.
Main Idea:  An observer of the present day who knew the Arthurian legend only from Tennyson would have been startled to see that the famous lovers were past their prime . In those days people loved each other for their lives without the conveniences of the divorce court and the psychiatrist . They had a God in heaven and a goddess on earth .
Reflection: I liked this chapter because of  An observer of the present day who knew the Arthurian legend only from Tennyson would have been startled to see that the famous lovers were past their prime . I thought it was a really complex chapter.

Chapter 86, Pages 596-602
Page 597, uncovered : make visible
Connotation: " it was night so that the windows were covered and the doors were never uncovered"
Page 597, Significant Statement: How must we set about the gralloch?We cut out its guts said Agravaine
Rationale: When the author uses the word guts, it shows heroism.
Main Idea:  Lancelot's the old ugly man's was the outline of a gargoyle . The lines of ugliness had sunk to rest as lines of strength . Lancelot had grown a face which people could trust .
Reflection: I’m looking forward to seeing how this story turns out. It’s really engaging so far. I thought  Lancelot's the old ugly man's was the outline of a gargoyle  was a really interesting part.

Chapter 87, Pages 603-609
Page 606, succeeded : attain success or reach a desired goal
Connotation: " the people who conquered them had steel swords (which is even better than iron) and that is how they succeeded in driving the old"
Page 607, Significant Statement: He felt that it would be safer to go home while he still knew where he was—but he had a stout heart and did not 
Rationale: This quote from the book is significant. They use the word stout. It shows the heroism in the statement.
Main Idea:  Arthur was off to read the pleas for the morrow a practice which he followed like a conscientious man . Nowadays the Law was his chief interest his final effort against Might .
Reflection: I look forward to learning more about  Arthur was off to read the pleas for the morrow a practice which he followed like a conscientious man . This chapter set up a lot of stuff and it was great.

Chapter 88, Pages 610-616
Page 611, apartments : a suite of rooms usually on one floor of an apartment house
Connotation: " guenever herself ushered into a small waiting-room while the state apartments were made ready fo"
Page 614, Significant Statement:  They made for the east where the poor lights had been and now before them the bold sun began to rise
Rationale: I thought the use of the word bold showed the heroism in the actions. It definitely stands out as a powerful statement.
Main Idea:  Lancelot knew that the King had gone to hunt in the New Forest so he was sure that the Queen would send for him . It was dark in his bedroom except for the one light in front of the holy picture and he was pacing the floor .
Reflection: I thought that  Lancelot knew that the King had gone to hunt in the New Forest so he was sure that the Queen would send for him  was an interesting part and made it a memorable chapter.  It was dark in his bedroom except for the one light in front of the holy picture and he was pacing the floor  was an intriguing moment.

Chapter 89, Pages 617-623
Page 622, flickered : move back and forth very rapidly
Connotation: " lanterns flickered outside in the vil"
Page 622, Significant Statement:  Look at the barns burnt and dead men's legs sticking out of ponds and horses with swelled bellies by the roadside and mills falling down and money buried and nobody daring to walk abroad wit
Rationale: When the author uses the word daring, it shows heroism.
Main Idea:  Guenever waited for Lancelot in the candle-light of her splendid bedroom brushing her grey hair . She looked singularly lovely not like a film star but like a woman who had grown a soul .
Reflection: I liked this chapter because of  Guenever waited for Lancelot in the candle-light of her splendid bedroom brushing her grey hair . I thought it was a really complex chapter.

Chapter 90, Pages 624-630
Page 627, caravaning : travel in a caravan
Connotation: " vigilant powdery odorous and loose-feathered—so that dogs object to take them in their mouths—armoured against pellets by the padding of these feathers the pigeons coo to one another with true love nourish their cunningly hidden children with true solicitude and flee from the aggressor with true philosophy—a race of peace lovers continually caravaning away from the dest"
Page 630, Significant Statement: So when she did make her small request after having spared him so many tears and welcomes what could he do but seek her pleasure? He had still to tell her that her unflinching hope was baseless
Rationale: This quote from the book is significant. They use the word unflinching. It shows the heroism in the statement.
Main Idea:  The Gawaine clan was waiting in the Justice Room a week later . The room looked different by daylight because the windows were uncovered . It was no longer a box no longer the kind of arras trap which tempted Hamlet's rapier to prick about for rats .
Reflection: I’m looking forward to seeing how this story turns out. It’s really engaging so far. I thought  The Gawaine clan was waiting in the Justice Room a week later  was a really interesting part.

Chapter 91, Pages 631-637
Page 636, engagement : a hostile meeting of opposing military forces in the course of a war
Connotation: "king arthur was delighted to see his old friends again and to hear of pellinore's engagement"
Page 634, Significant Statement:  Nor did the free wild geese his sometime followers ever again settle on the other island—previously a haunt of theirs—from which their captain had been spirited away
Rationale: I thought the use of the word spirited showed the heroism in the actions. It definitely stands out as a powerful statement.
Main Idea:  The old-fashioned keeps of Arthur's accession had given place to a gaiety of defence now difficult to imagine . Everything had the colour of winter the faded lichen green like a green velvet cushion which has been left in the sun for years .
Reflection: I look forward to learning more about  The old-fashioned keeps of Arthur's accession had given place to a gaiety of defence now difficult to imagine . This chapter set up a lot of stuff and it was great.

Chapter 92, Pages 638-644
Page 644, methodical : characterized by method and orderliness
Connotation: " some lizards live there now and the starving sparrows keep warm on winter nights in the ivy and a barn owl drives it methodically hovering outside"
Page 642, Significant Statement:  He was small and the creature had no chance against him at this game
Rationale: When the author uses the word game, it shows heroism.
Main Idea:  His Holiness has made their peace for them said Mordred savagely . Mordred had begun dressing with this dramatic simplicity since the time when he had become a leader of the popular party .
Reflection: I thought that  His Holiness has made their peace for them said Mordred savagely  was an interesting part and made it a memorable chapter.  Mordred had begun dressing with this dramatic simplicity since the time when he had become a leader of the popular party  was an intriguing moment.

Chapter 93, Pages 645-651
Page 651, aristocratic : belonging to or characteristic of the nobility or aristocracy
Connotation: " the great peregrine falcon had bestirred herself and now said in a high nasal voice which came from her aristocratic nose gentlemen you"
Page 647, Significant Statement:  They found out afterwards that she had been in a lunatic hospital for three
Rationale: This quote from the book is significant. They use the word lunatic. It shows the heroism in the statement.
Main Idea:  Guenever sat in the Queen's chamber at Carlisle Castle . The huge bed had been re-made as a settee . The great lady was sewing sitting rather formally in the high chair with the book beside her .
Reflection: I liked this chapter because of  Guenever sat in the Queen's chamber at Carlisle Castle . I thought it was a really complex chapter.

Chapter 94, Pages 652-658
Page 653, establishment : the act of forming or establishing something
Connotation: " he feared that his coverts would be disturbed by a lot of wild royal retainers—never know what these city chaps will be up to next—and that the king's huntsman this fellow twyti would sneer at his humble hunting establishment unsettle the hunt "
Page 653, Significant Statement:  Bors said: Shall I make an end of this war? Not so hardy I shouted on pain 
Rationale: I thought the use of the word hardy showed the heroism in the actions. It definitely stands out as a powerful statement.
Main Idea:  Gawaine's tent was poor and shabby compared with the splendid pavilions of the English knights . The only ornaments were a leaden bottle of holy water which he was taking for medicine marked Optimus egrorum medicus fit Thomas bonorum together with a withered bunch of heather tied to the pole . Gawaine was stretched face downward on the plaids . The man was crying slowly and hopelessly while Arthur sitting beside him stroked his hand .
Reflection: I’m looking forward to seeing how this story turns out. It’s really engaging so far. I thought  Gawaine's tent was poor and shabby compared with the splendid pavilions of the English knights  was a really interesting part.

Chapter 95, Pages 659-665
Page 662, dyspepsia : a disorder of digestive function characterized by discomfort or heartburn or nausea
Connotation: "    dyspepsia    anaemia    toxa"
Page 660, Significant Statement: At the mention of an ordeal the Wart trembled within himself and privately determined that Balin should 
Rationale: When the author uses the word determined, it shows heroism.
Main Idea:  The noises it made sounded like inchoate masses of silk being pulled through trees as we pull hair through a comb . It whistled hummed hummed throbbed boomed in the chimneys . It sounded like some monstrous elemental being wailing its damnation .
Reflection: I look forward to learning more about  The noises it made sounded like inchoate masses of silk being pulled through trees as we pull hair through a comb . This chapter set up a lot of stuff and it was great.

Chapter 96, Pages 666-672
Page 666, refreshments : snacks and drinks served as a light meal
Connotation: " they had formed a habit of carrying the refreshments into the great hal"
Page 669, Significant Statement: He had preserved his integrity said Arthur
Rationale: This quote from the book is significant. They use the word grit. It shows the heroism in the statement.
Main Idea:  The same wind of sorrow whistled round the King's pavilion at Salisbury . Inside there was a silent calm after the riot of the open . An ill-bred falcon who was subject to the vice of screaming stood hooded on a perch .
Reflection: I thought that  The same wind of sorrow whistled round the King's pavilion at Salisbury  was an interesting part and made it a memorable chapter.  Inside there was a silent calm after the riot of the open  was an intriguing moment.

